Chapter 1: Invasion.
The memory of my final days in the Old World remains impossibly sharp. It isn’t just a recollection; it is a playback. I can still see the exact flicker of my television screen, hear the faint, uneven thrum of the refrigerator in the kitchen, and see how the autumn dust motes caught the light as they drifted toward the carpet. To the boy I was then—the adolescent everyone knew as Lem—these were just the background details of a quiet, suburban life. I didn’t know then that my brain was already beginning to record everything with a fidelity that should have been impossible for a human.
The anomalies on the Moon had been bubbling under the surface for months. Most of us ignored the initial reports. We were used to the "Decades of Revelation"—that constant stream of leaked secrets and ancient prophecies that made everything feel like a spectacle. Besides, the "Base Alpha" on the far side was old news; space enthusiasts had been talking about it for years. But something had changed around 2010. The base had started to grow, stealthily expanding across the grey basalt until it was large enough to be caught by more than just high-res satellites.
I saw a forum post once before it was deleted, a fragment of data that claimed our entire technological paradigm was a "grown" phenomenon—that the microchips in our phones and the satellites in our orbit weren't engineered in labs, but cultivated from a single 'Moon Seed' brought back by the Apollo 14 mission in 1971. At the time, I filed it away as just another flavor of the Apollo-hoax myth. I didn't realize that I was the ultimate data-point in that very experiment.
Most people believed we were in the late 2020s. The "Correct Calendar" hadn't been enforced yet, and the Archivists were still just a shadow organization operating under the banner of the Technocratic Core. We thought we had a future—a linear progression of years stretching out before us. We didn't know we were living in the final seconds of a fifteen-year masquerade, a simulated peace designed to keep the Vessel frequencies stable while the Monoliths were being refined.
It was the amateurs who finally broke the silence. A group of hobbyists using self-made drones and high-gain signal arrays managed to capture images that the major agencies had been suppressing for a decade. Once those pictures of the massive, geometric structures hit the net, the media floodgates opened. But before the news could even settle into a narrative, the sky began to change.
I felt no alarm. Even as the government confirmed the presence of the structures, I remained a passive observer. At the time, I attributed this stillness to a personality defect—an idiosyncratic, unappreciated hyper-observance that had always served as a source of social friction in the foster homes and the quiet cul-de-sacs where I’d grown up. In an era of performative panic and media-saturated outrage, my tendency to stand still and catalog the flicker of a neighbor’s eyelid, the micro-tremors in a dog's leg, or the oscillating frequency of a siren was viewed not as a gift, but as a glitch in the expected consumer-drone response. I was a teenager who saw too much and felt too little, a combination that made me an outcast even in my own living room.
While my neighbors stocked their basements with bottled water and analog radios, I went about my routine with a chillingly efficient detachment. I remember watching a group of children across the street playing a game they called "Tripod," unaware that the nomenclature was already drifting through the collective unconscious, a premonition of the mechanical rot.
The escalation happened fast. Reports of atmospheric entries flooded the net—not the kinetic impacts of meteors, but something deliberate. They were dubbed Synodics by the academic circles, but from the blurred, leaked footage of that first afternoon, the world called them Tripods.
I stood on my porch on that final Tuesday. The sky was an electric, pressurized blue. On the horizon, beyond the shimmering glass of the corporate towers, I saw them. They were not machines in the sense of human engineering; they were something grown of a different causality. Colossal silhouettes—**Monoliths** stadium-sized and terrifying—that the public mistook for tripods. From this distance, they were four-pointed shadows with two massive legs and two elongated arms reaching for the pavement, their metallic skins oscillating with a faint, thermal haze. They moved with a glacial, terrifying grace, ignoring the insects of human civilization beneath them.
The city began to unmake itself. The streets, once orderly conduits for commerce, were now choked with the debris of panic. I watched the evacuation from my window. Hover-vehicles and ancient internal combustion cars tangled in a desperate, directionless flight. People screamed, their biological frailties exposed by the looming shadows.
I felt nothing. No fear, no adrenaline, no urge to flee. I sat in my kitchen and listened to the floorboards as the first of the Fire machines landed twenty miles to the north. The resonance was a specific, low-frequency thrum that seemed to vibrate not just the air, but the very floor beneath my feet. I wasn't panicking; I was just watching it all happen, noting every vibration and every sound.
The illusion of suburban authority shattered at 4:14 PM. A military convoy—the dark, armored hulls of the regular army pushed forward by the invisible hands of the Core—pulled into my cul-de-sac. They did not stop at the houses of the screaming neighbors. They did not offer assistance to the fleeing refugees.
Six vehicles stopped directly in front of my driveway. The thud of the boots on the pavement was a synchronized percussion. I stood up. I didn't feel like I was making a choice; I just felt like it was time to leave.
I walked to the door before they could knock. I knew they were there for me. I knew the ordinary distance had finally closed.